js/README.md, before:

# Javascript build

The javascript build uses Webpack to build javascript bundles and outputs them
to the Jekyll source dir (`www.foia.gov/assets/js/`). Jekyll treats them as
plain old javascript files and will copy them to the Jekyll build directory
(`_site/`) to be deployed.

## Development

This will start the Jekyll server and webpack in watch mode.

    $ make serve


## Tests

The test files are compiled via `mocha-webpack` and then run with mocha.

    $ make test


## Architecture

The javascript files use [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/hello-world.html) with
a [Flux](https://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/in-depth-overview.html#content)
architecture.

The directories are laid out as follows:

* `/js`: Entrypoints and Apps (Flux Container views)
* `/js/actions`: Flux Actions and Action Creators
* `/js/components`: UI components (Flux Views)
* `/js/stores`: Flux Stores
* `/js/test`: unit and functional tests
* `/js/util`: libraries and helpers


### Concepts


#### Entrypoint

This is a single js bundle for a page. It contains any js libraries needed for the
page and a single App.


#### Store

A [Store](https://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/in-depth-overview.html#stores)
keeps the state of the application. When actions are dispatched either by a user
action or from the server, the stores process the action and update the state
accordingly. When the stores change, they emit an event so that the App knows to
update and re-render.


#### Component

A [View](https://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/in-depth-overview.html#views-and-controller-views)
in Flux terms, the Component is a pure function that renders based on only it's
`props`.

Generally, it should not be necessary for a component to manage state. It should not hold
its own state or deal with any lifecycle hooks. Instead, state changes should be
handled by the event handlers, triggering Actions and state changes in the
Stores. The App will detect these state changes and pass the new props to the
Component.


#### App

A special component called
a [Controller-View](https://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/in-depth-overview.html#views-and-controller-views)
in Flux terms and implements the
[Container](https://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/flux-utils.html#container)
interface. It is responsible for initializing the dispatcher and stores. It
wraps the Action Creators in event handlers and passing any state to individual
components on the page.


#### Action

An [Action](https://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/in-depth-overview.html#actions)
is created from a user event or from the server (like data being received). They
are simply a payload with a `type`. Based on the `type` of Action, stores will
process the payload and update appropriately.


#### Action Creator

A semantic wrapper function that dispatches actions. In some cases, actions are
related, like requesting data from the server. A request for data might result
in a `fetch` action followed by a `receive` action and possibly an `error`
action if the request failed. Action Creators wrap these Actions together.

Action Creators should always return a `Promise` so that it is easy to chain
them together or wait for async actions to complete.

Commit message:

Source maps for debugging, minify production builds (#212)
* Use source maps

Also, set the default environment to 'development' so you don't need a foia-api
VM to run the front stage.

* Minify production builds

js/README.md, after:

# Javascript build

The javascript build uses Webpack to build javascript bundles and outputs them
to the Jekyll source dir (`www.foia.gov/assets/js/`). Jekyll treats them as
plain old javascript files and will copy them to the Jekyll build directory
(`_site/`) to be deployed.

## Development

This will start the Jekyll server and webpack in watch mode.

    $ make serve

By default, `$APP_ENV` is set to `development` which will use the development
foia-api in the Acquia Cloud environment. If you need to develop against a local
foia-api, set `APP_ENV=local`.

    $ APP_ENV=local make serve


## Tests

The test files are compiled via `mocha-webpack` and then run with mocha.

    $ make test


## Architecture

The javascript files use [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/hello-world.html) with
a [Flux](https://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/in-depth-overview.html#content)
architecture.

The directories are laid out as follows:

* `/js`: Entrypoints and Apps (Flux Container views)
* `/js/actions`: Flux Actions and Action Creators
* `/js/components`: UI components (Flux Views)
* `/js/stores`: Flux Stores
* `/js/test`: unit and functional tests
* `/js/util`: libraries and helpers


### Concepts


#### Entrypoint

This is a single js bundle for a page. It contains any js libraries needed for the
page and a single App.


#### Store

A [Store](https://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/in-depth-overview.html#stores)
keeps the state of the application. When actions are dispatched either by a user
action or from the server, the stores process the action and update the state
accordingly. When the stores change, they emit an event so that the App knows to
update and re-render.


#### Component

A [View](https://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/in-depth-overview.html#views-and-controller-views)
in Flux terms, the Component is a pure function that renders based on only it's
`props`.

Generally, it should not be necessary for a component to manage state. It should not hold
its own state or deal with any lifecycle hooks. Instead, state changes should be
handled by the event handlers, triggering Actions and state changes in the
Stores. The App will detect these state changes and pass the new props to the
Component.


#### App

A special component called
a [Controller-View](https://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/in-depth-overview.html#views-and-controller-views)
in Flux terms and implements the
[Container](https://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/flux-utils.html#container)
interface. It is responsible for initializing the dispatcher and stores. It
wraps the Action Creators in event handlers and passing any state to individual
components on the page.


#### Action

An [Action](https://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/in-depth-overview.html#actions)
is created from a user event or from the server (like data being received). They
are simply a payload with a `type`. Based on the `type` of Action, stores will
process the payload and update appropriately.


#### Action Creator

A semantic wrapper function that dispatches actions. In some cases, actions are
related, like requesting data from the server. A request for data might result
in a `fetch` action followed by a `receive` action and possibly an `error`
action if the request failed. Action Creators wrap these Actions together.

Action Creators should always return a `Promise` so that it is easy to chain
them together or wait for async actions to complete.
